ClickHouse vs Elasticsearch (#5490)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/clickhouse-vs-elasticsearch.md

---
date: 2023-03-15
title: "In-depth: ClickHouse vs Elasticsearch"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ["mathew-pregasen"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-engineering-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Engineering
tags:
  - Explainers
  - ClickHouse
---

Pitting Elasticsearch against ClickHouse is a sort-of, not-really awkward comparison to make. On one hand, both were released as open-source frameworks with advantages over conventional databases like PostgreSQL for performing tasks over *lots* of data. 

On the other, Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are produced by very different organizations for fairly different purposes. Elasticsearch was the bedrock product for Elastic, which is a for-profit company that sells Elastic Cloud, a managed solution that bundles Elasticsearch with other data products. 

![Elasticsearch Development.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/elasticsearch-development.png)

> ClickHouse isn’t too different. While the database, ClickHouse, remains open source, it is managed by the for-profit ClickHouse Inc. ClickHouse Inc’s main offering is ClickHouse Cloud, a managed service similar to Elastic Cloud, just for deploying ClickHouse instead. However, ClickHouse also merges notable contributions by Altinity, a separate company that sells Altinity.Cloud, a managed service for deploying ClickHouse in Kubernetes. 

Author: Yeah, agreed. I'll make some revisions just to dial back this part. It's not super important.

There are three major components that enable ClickHouse to return aggregations, such as averages, sums, and standard deviations, in millisecond times even over petabytes of data. 

#### Component 1: Columnar Layout

ClickHouse’s columnar layout – which flips rows and columns in storage relative to a MySQL database – makes aggregations efficient. 

![ClickHouse’s biggest magic trick really comes down to swapping rows and columns ](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/row-vs-column-database.png)
<Caption>ClickHouse’s biggest magic trick really comes down to swapping rows and columns</Caption> 

When databases physically access data, they scan data row-by-row. By extension, if an analyst is trying to calculate the average value of bank account balances in a PostgreSQL database, they would need to access **every** bank account row. Alone, that would probably blow out memory. But in ClickHouse, the same analyst would only need to access **one** (physical) row of data – the bank balance one – and collapse it into an average. 

> Again, this is a **physical** row of data. As far as ClickHouse’s interface goes, data is still stored in a traditional format. ClickHouse’s syntax still treats individual entries as rows and attributes as columns. But under the hood, ClickHouse stores the data in an inverted arrangement, optimized for merging attribute data into single values. 

Author: I think the point is the user sees one row of data (the physical one referenced), but beneath that are a bunch of "virtual" ones for optimization? Maybe there's a better way to explain this. Does sound about right @fuziontech?

Elasticsearch, meanwhile, can accomplish similar performance over certain queries. For instance, if a product needs to print the number of college alumni that are unemployed, Elasticsearch can accomplish this by adding up indices in the inverted index of words that pattern-match to unemployed alumni. In other words, fast search sometimes equates to great analytics by just adding a COUNT() function. 

While both Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are fundamentally backend products, we can compare their respective GUI products – Kibana for Elasticsearch and ClickHouse Cloud for ClickHouse. ClickHouse Cloud is a *much* younger product; Kibana, conversely, has been around for nearly a decade and has an extensive UI.

![Comparinson.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/comparison.png)

In a nutshell, comparing the analytics efficiency of ClickHouse and Elasticsearch has the same sort-of, not-really awkwardness of other comparisons – they both excel in their respective categories using radically different methods, just catering to a different type of need. However, Elastic’s Kibana product is more mature than ClickHouse Cloud’s competitive offering. 

## Comparing developers

> One of the reasons that Elasticsearch grew quickly thanks to fast-paced development by its parent company, Elastic. Elastic has spearheaded the development of Elasticsearch, Kibana, and other accessory products like Beats, a data shipper. For many enterprise customers, Elastic being a psuedo-closed-source solution is balanced by the fact that it can leverage its enterprise revenue to foster a massive engineering effort to improve Elastic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the reasons that Elasticsearch grew quickly thanks to fast-paced development by its parent company, Elastic. Elastic has spearheaded the development of Elasticsearch, Kibana, and other accessory products like Beats, a data shipper. For many enterprise customers, Elasticsearch being a psuedo-closed-source solution is balanced by the fact that it can leverage its enterprise revenue to foster a massive engineering effort to improve it.
```

> Conversely, the teams behind ClickHouse are a lot smaller. However, ClickHouse has a very avid developer community, with contributors existing outside of the two major ClickHouse developers – ClickHouse Inc and Altinity Inc. And one of the reasons that ClickHouse is starting to really grow in the last few years is because of its open-source, pro-community brand. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conversely, the teams behind ClickHouse are a lot smaller. However, ClickHouse has a very avid developer community, with contributors existing outside of the two major ClickHouse developers – ClickHouse Inc and Altinity Inc And one of the reasons that ClickHouse is starting to really grow in the last few years is because of its open-source, pro-community brand. 
```
If we want a period after Inc we should do so everywhere 😅

Author: Ah, my bad. I moved this into the conclusion but forgot to delete the previous section.

## Final thoughts

ClickHouse and Elasticsearch are both fantastic solutions for data aggregation and fast search respectively. 

Elasticsearch grew quickly thanks to fast-paced development by its parent company, Elastic. Elastic has spearheaded the development of Elasticsearch, Kibana, and other accessory products like Beats, a data shipper. For many enterprise customers, Elastic being a psuedo-closed-source solution is balanced by the fact that it can leverage its enterprise revenue to foster a massive engineering effort to improve Elastic.

> Conversely, while the team behind ClickHouse is smaller, ClickHouse has an avid developer community, with contributors existing outside of the two major ClickHouse developers – ClickHouse Inc and Altinity Inc. And one of the reasons that ClickHouse is starting to grow in the last few years is because of its open-source, pro-community brand, and it's blistering performance.

Reviewer: These are both repeats of what you said 2 paragraphs ago, probably better to just remove.

> Overll, sometimes Elasticsearch may be the better solution if data aggregation involves searching text. Elasticsearch is a more mature project with an entire suite dedicated to interfacing with Elasticsearch data; however, it is no longer a true open-source product like ClickHouse is. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, Elasticsearch may be the better solution if data aggregation involves searching text. It is a more mature project with an entire suite dedicated to interfacing with Elasticsearch data; however, it is no longer a true open-source product like ClickHouse is. 
```
Also include something about what ClickHouse does well?

Elasticsearch, as the name implies, was designed to power better search. It can efficiently return search results, such as grocery items on a grocer’s website, accounting for things such as spelling mistakes. It's the bedrock product for Elastic, which sells Elastic Cloud – a managed solution that bundles Elasticsearch with other data products. 

![Elasticsearch Development.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/elasticsearch-development.png)

ClickHouse, meanwhile, excels at aggregating data for uses like business analytics or financial statistics. While the database, ClickHouse, remains open source, it is managed by the for-profit ClickHouse Inc. ClickHouse Inc.’s main offering is ClickHouse Cloud, a managed service similar to Elastic Cloud, just for deploying ClickHouse instead. However, ClickHouse also merges notable contributions by Altinity, a separate company that sells Altinity.Cloud, a managed service for deploying ClickHouse in Kubernetes. 

![ClickHouse Development.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/clickhouse-development.png)

> 
> Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are interesting to compare because of their vastly different architecture, optimized for each of their respective goals. Comparing them is a good meditation on physical and virtual layouts can improve efficiency toward a specific efficiency goal. 

Author: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are interesting to compare because of their vastly different architecture, optimized for each of their respective goals. Comparing them is a good meditation on how physical and virtual layouts can improve efficiency toward a specific efficiency goal. 
```

---

> date: 2023-03-15

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2023-03-20
```

title: "In-depth: ClickHouse vs Elasticsearch"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ["mathew-pregasen"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-engineering-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Engineering
tags:
  - Explainers
  - ClickHouse
---

Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are both open-source frameworks with advantages over conventional databases like [PostgreSQL](/blog/clickhouse-vs-postgres) for performing tasks over *lots* of data, but they serve very different needs.

Elasticsearch is the bedrock product for Elastic. It sells Elastic Cloud, a managed solution that bundles Elasticsearch with other data products. 

![Elasticsearch Development.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/elasticsearch-development.png)

> ClickHouse isn’t too different. While the database, ClickHouse, remains open source, it is managed by the for-profit ClickHouse Inc. ClickHouse Inc’s main offering is ClickHouse Cloud, a managed service similar to Elastic Cloud, just for deploying ClickHouse instead. However, ClickHouse also merges notable contributions by Altinity, a separate company that sells Altinity.Cloud, a managed service for deploying ClickHouse in Kubernetes. 

Author: ```suggestion
ClickHouse isn’t too different. While the database, ClickHouse, remains open source, it is managed by the for-profit ClickHouse Inc. ClickHouse Inc.’s main offering is ClickHouse Cloud, a managed service similar to Elastic Cloud, just for deploying ClickHouse instead. However, ClickHouse also merges notable contributions by Altinity, a separate company that sells Altinity.Cloud, a managed service for deploying ClickHouse in Kubernetes. 
```

![ClickHouse Development.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/clickhouse-development.png)

> Elasticsearch, as the name implies, was designed to power better search. It can efficiently return search results, such as grocery items on a grocer’s website, accounting for things such as spelling mistakes. ClickHouse, meanwhile, would stumble with the same task, but it excels at aggregating data for uses like business analytics or financial statistics. 

Reviewer: I think this should be the second paragraph, as someone clicking on this article probably cares about what the product does more than what the business structure is.

> Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are both open-source frameworks with advantages over conventional databases like [PostgreSQL](/blog/clickhouse-vs-postgres) for performing tasks over *lots* of data, but they serve very different needs.
> 
> Elasticsearch is the bedrock product for Elastic. It sells Elastic Cloud, a managed solution that bundles Elasticsearch with other data products. 
> 
> ![Elasticsearch Development.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/elasticsearch-development.png)
> 
> ClickHouse isn’t too different. While the database, ClickHouse, remains open source, it is managed by the for-profit ClickHouse Inc. ClickHouse Inc.’s main offering is ClickHouse Cloud, a managed service similar to Elastic Cloud, just for deploying ClickHouse instead. However, ClickHouse also merges notable contributions by Altinity, a separate company that sells Altinity.Cloud, a managed service for deploying ClickHouse in Kubernetes. 
> 
> ![ClickHouse Development.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/clickhouse-development.png)
> 
> Elasticsearch, as the name implies, was designed to power better search. It can efficiently return search results, such as grocery items on a grocer’s website, accounting for things such as spelling mistakes. ClickHouse, meanwhile, would stumble with the same task, but it excels at aggregating data for uses like business analytics or financial statistics. 

Author: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are both open-source frameworks with advantages over conventional databases like [PostgreSQL](/blog/clickhouse-vs-postgres) for performing tasks over *lots* of data, but they serve very different needs.

Elasticsearch, as the name implies, was designed to power better search. It can efficiently return search results, such as grocery items on a grocer’s website, accounting for things such as spelling mistakes. It's the bedrock product for Elastic, which sells Elastic Cloud – a managed solution that bundles Elasticsearch with other data products. 

![Elasticsearch Development.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/elasticsearch-development.png)

ClickHouse, meanwhile, excels at aggregating data for uses like business analytics or financial statistics. While the database, ClickHouse, remains open source, it is managed by the for-profit ClickHouse Inc. ClickHouse Inc.’s main offering is ClickHouse Cloud, a managed service similar to Elastic Cloud, just for deploying ClickHouse instead. However, ClickHouse also merges notable contributions by Altinity, a separate company that sells Altinity.Cloud, a managed service for deploying ClickHouse in Kubernetes. 

![ClickHouse Development.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/clickhouse-development.png)

```

> Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are interesting to compare because of their vastly different architecture, optimized for each of their respective goals. Comparing them is a good meditation on physical and virtual layouts can improve efficiency toward a specific efficiency goal. 

Author: @ivanagas Have re-worked this intro so it's more direct. Think it reads way better now, so good call!

Reviewer: Agree 😄

## Background

Sometimes, the relationship between an open-source tool and its lead developer is complicated. ClickHouse's relationship is straightforward, but Elastic has a complex history with open source. 

### What is Elasticsearch?

Elasticsearch was originally released in 2010 under an open-source license. The premise behind Elasticsearch was that Apache Lucene, an open-source product designed to efficiently search JSON documents, needed better infrastructure for scaling. Apache Lucene made it easy to organize and search a series of JSON documents – such as human profiles; Elasticsearch made it easy to distribute those human profiles, which might be in the billions, across multiple locations, indexed both physically and virtually.

> Elasticsearch is considered a NoSQL database because it uses Apache Lucene – and by extension, JSON documents – as a primary store of data. Specifically, it is a Document-Store NoSQL database with a focus on searching and retrieving data. It is never used as the primary store of data. Sometimes Elasticsearch data stores are redundantly available in a more traditional database like PostgreSQL as Elasticsearch is only leveraged to improve search results. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch is considered a NoSQL database because it uses Apache Lucene – and by extension, JSON documents – as a primary store of data. Specifically, it is a Document-Store NoSQL database with a focus on searching and retrieving data. It is never used as the primary store of data. Elasticsearch data stores are often redundantly available in a more traditional database like PostgreSQL as Elasticsearch is only leveraged to improve search results. 
```

> In 2021, Elasticsearch abandoned its traditional Apache Open Source license in favor of a new license known as an Elastic license. It was a controversial move motivated by Elastic’s irritation with Amazon profiting off of Elasticsearch by operating a managed service without ever contributing to the codebase. Amazon forked the last version of open-source Elasticsearch into a new open-source project, OpenSearch. Similar to Elastic (and ClickHouse Inc.), Amazon launched a managed version of OpenSearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2021, Elasticsearch abandoned its traditional Apache Open Source license in favor of a new license known as an Elastic license. It was a controversial move motivated by Elastic’s irritation with [Amazon profiting off of Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/blog/licensing-change) by operating a managed service without ever contributing to the codebase. Amazon forked the last version of open-source Elasticsearch into a new open-source project, OpenSearch. Similar to Elastic (and ClickHouse Inc.), Amazon launched a managed version of OpenSearch.
```

```json
{
    "_index": "accounts",
    "_type": "_doc",
    "_id": "1",
    "_version": 1,    "_seq_no": 1,    "_primary_term": 1,
    "found": true,
    "_source": {
        "accountname": "Marcus Pollack",
        "balance": 34200,
        "email": "marcus.pollack@gmail.com"
    }
}
```

#### Fields (virtual)

A field is an attribute of a document. In the previous example, the fields were `accountname`, `balance`, and `email`. Fields make it easy for documents to be indexed and retrieved. Obviously, they also are used to store the data that applications use and present to users. 

#### Indices (virtual), nodes (physical), and shards (virtual)

The three major core components of Elasticsearch’s infrastructure are **indices**, **nodes**, and **shards**. A document in Elasticsearch is part of two discrete collections:

1. A **node**, a physical machine that stores the data. Akin to a physical MySQL server, such as a device sitting in an Idaho data center.

2. An **index**, a virtual collection that defines what type of data it is. Akin to a table in MySQL, like a collection of bank accounts, student profiles, or property listings. 

> A **shard**, meanwhile, is the intersection of a specific *node* and a specific **index**. A **shard** is also a single instance of Apache Lucene. It is a collection of documents, such as two hundred user profiles of a total set of forty thousand. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. A **shard**, meanwhile, is the intersection of a specific *node* and a specific **index**. A **shard** is also a single instance of Apache Lucene. It is a collection of documents, such as two hundred user profiles of a total set of forty thousand. 
```

#### Component 2: Materialized views

ClickHouse’s second superpower is **dynamic** materialized views. 

![Visualizing Materialized Views.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/visualizing-materialized-views.png)

Materialized views are not a new concept – in MySQL or PostgreSQL, a materialized view is a new table that can be queried from, rendered by a SQL query accessing other tables. However, once new data is added to the core tables, that materialized view goes out-of-date. Because creating materialized views is often expensive in traditional databases given their non-columnar layout, refreshing materialized views can only happen occasionally. 

But ClickHouse truly makes materialized views **dynamic**. ClickHouse doesn’t only accomplish this because of the columnar layout of its data. It also leverages incremental data structures that merges data strategically. 

> #### Component 3: Specialized Engines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Component 3: Specialized engines
```

### Architecture summary

At a high level, ClickHouse and Elasticsearch’s differences showcase how they are designed to fit their own purposes. ClickHouse consolidates data so it can constantly update materialized views to serve number-hungry queries. Meanwhile, Elasticsearch is designed to find *specific* items, treating search queries as a group project where every node does its part. 

While ClickHouse supports multiple instances, managed by Apache Zookeeper, it does not offer a decentralized solution competitive with Elasticsearch’s model. Likewise, while Elasticsearch offers data frames analytics, which has some overlap with ClickHouse’s materialized views, it is either more expensive or not as dynamic as ClickHouse’s fine-tuned aggregation machine. 

## Who uses ClickHouse and Elasticsearch?

Elasticsearch and ClickHouse both have small, medium, and enterprise customers.

> Elasticsearch’s customers utilize it to return a specific chunk of data quickly to users. For instance, [Uber](http://uber.com) uses Elastic to return data relevant to calculating surge pricing on a minute-by-minute basis. [Tinder](http://tinder.com) uses Elastic to fetch potential matches that might fit a user’s profile. [T-Mobile](http://tmobile.com) uses Elasticsearch to delivery specific user profiles to customer support reps to promote better NPS scores. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch’s customers utilize it to return a specific chunk of data quickly to users. For instance, [Uber](https://www.elastic.co/elasticon/conf/2017/sf/powering-uber-marketplace-real-time-data-needs-with-elasticsearch) uses Elastic to return data relevant to calculating surge pricing on a minute-by-minute basis. [Tinder](https://www.elastic.co/elasticon/conf/2017/sf/tinder-using-the-elastic-stack-to-make-connections-around-the-world) uses Elastic to fetch potential matches that might fit a user’s profile. [T-Mobile](https://www.elastic.co/elasticon/tour/2019/seattle/t-mobile) uses Elasticsearch to delivery specific user profiles to customer support reps to promote better NPS scores. 
```

In all of these examples, Elastic fetches something specific very efficiently. 

Conversely, ClickHouse is used to return aggregations of data. The most obvious example would be **us**. We use ClickHouse to power PostHog, an open-source analytics suite that involves hundreds of aggregate values. Previously, Posthog was powered by PostgreSQL, which quickly spiraled [out of control](/blog/clickhouse-vs-postgres) as we grew. 

> Others, like us, also use ClickHouse to power user-facing features – [Rokt](http://rokt.com), an e-commerce platform, uses ClickHouse to power its analytics panels. However, some companies leverage ClickHouse for internal use cases, such as the Washington Post, which uses ClickHouse to power its in-house analytics suite. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Others, like us, also use ClickHouse to power user-facing features – [Rokt](https://clickhouse.com/blog/nyc-meetup-report-real-time-slicing-and-dicing-reporting-with-clickhouse), an e-commerce platform, uses ClickHouse to power its analytics panels. However, some companies leverage ClickHouse for internal use cases, such as the Washington Post, which uses ClickHouse to power its in-house analytics suite. 
```

---
date: 2023-03-15
title: "In-depth: ClickHouse vs Elasticsearch"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ["mathew-pregasen"]
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-engineering-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
category: Engineering
tags:
  - Explainers
  - ClickHouse
---

> Pitting Elasticsearch against ClickHouse is a sort-of, not-really awkward comparison to make. On one hand, both are open-source frameworks with advantages over conventional databases like [PostgreSQL](/blog/clickhouse-vs-postgres) for performing tasks over *lots* of data. 
> 
> On the other, Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are built by very different organizations for fairly different purposes. Elasticsearch was the bedrock product for Elastic, which is a for-profit company that sells Elastic Cloud, a managed solution that bundles Elasticsearch with other data products. 

Author: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are open-source frameworks with advantages over conventional databases like [PostgreSQL](/blog/clickhouse-vs-postgres) for performing tasks over *lots* of data. Elasticsearch was the bedrock product for Elastic, which is a for-profit company that sells Elastic Cloud, a managed solution that bundles Elasticsearch with other data products. 
```

![Elasticsearch Development.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/elasticsearch-development.png)

ClickHouse isn’t too different. While the database, ClickHouse, remains open source, it is managed by the for-profit ClickHouse Inc. ClickHouse Inc’s main offering is ClickHouse Cloud, a managed service similar to Elastic Cloud, just for deploying ClickHouse instead. However, ClickHouse also merges notable contributions by Altinity, a separate company that sells Altinity.Cloud, a managed service for deploying ClickHouse in Kubernetes. 

![ClickHouse Development.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/clickhouse-development.png)

> Elasticsearch and ClickHouse were built to target different needs. Elasticsearch, as the name implies, was designed to power better search. It can efficiently return search results, such as grocery items on a grocer’s website, accounting for things such as spelling mistakes. ClickHouse, meanwhile, would stumble with the same task, but it excels at aggregating data for uses like business analytics or financial statistics. 

Author: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch, as the name implies, was designed to power better search. It can efficiently return search results, such as grocery items on a grocer’s website, accounting for things such as spelling mistakes. ClickHouse, meanwhile, would stumble with the same task, but it excels at aggregating data for uses like business analytics or financial statistics. 
```

> So why even compare them? Amid their differences, Elasticsearch and ClickHouse draw an interesting comparison because of their vastly different architecture, optimized for each of their respective goals. Comparing them is a good meditation on how various physical and virtual layouts can dramatically improve efficiency toward a specific efficiency goal. 

Author: ```suggestion
Amid their differences, Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are interesting to compare because of their vastly different architecture, optimized for each of their respective goals. Comparing them is a good meditation on how various physical and virtual layouts can dramatically improve efficiency toward a specific efficiency goal. 
```

## Background

> Sometimes, the relationship between an open-source tool and its lead developer is complicated; with ClickHouse, the relationship is straightforward and fundamentally no different from PostHog’s relationship with its open-source product. Elastic, meanwhile, has a complex history with open-source. 

Author: ```suggestion
Sometimes, the relationship between an open-source tool and its lead developer is complicated. ClickHouse's relationship is straightforward, but Elastic has a complex history with open source. 
```

### What is Elasticsearch?

Elasticsearch was originally released in 2010 under an open-source license. The premise behind Elasticsearch was that Apache Lucene, an open-source product designed to efficiently search JSON documents, needed better infrastructure for scaling. Apache Lucene made it easy to organize and search a series of JSON documents – such as human profiles; Elasticsearch made it easy to distribute those human profiles, which might be in the billions, across multiple locations, indexed both physically and virtually.

Elasticsearch is considered a NoSQL database because it uses Apache Lucene – and by extension, JSON documents – as a primary store of data. Specifically, it is a Document-Store NoSQL database with a focus on searching and retrieving data. It is never used as the primary store of data. Sometimes Elasticsearch data stores are redundantly available in a more traditional database like PostgreSQL as Elasticsearch is only leveraged to improve search results. 

> In 2021, Elasticsearch abandoned its traditional Apache Open Source license in favor of a new license known as an Elastic license. It was a controversial move motivated by Elastic’s irritation with Amazon profiting off of Elasticsearch by operating a managed service without ever contributing to the codebase. Amazon forked the last version of open-source Elasticsearch into a new open-source project, OpenSearch. Similar to Elastic (and ClickHouse Inc.), Amazon launched a managed version of OpenSearch, titled OpenSearch Service.

Author: ```suggestion
In 2021, Elasticsearch abandoned its traditional Apache Open Source license in favor of a new license known as an Elastic license. It was a controversial move motivated by Elastic’s irritation with Amazon profiting off of Elasticsearch by operating a managed service without ever contributing to the codebase. Amazon forked the last version of open-source Elasticsearch into a new open-source project, OpenSearch. Similar to Elastic (and ClickHouse Inc.), Amazon launched a managed version of OpenSearch.
```

> Elasticsearch’s new license allows developers to implement Elasticsearch themselves, but forbids cloud distributors from running a for-profit, managed Elasticsearch service. Most open-source advocates consider Elastic’s Elastic License not open-source; however, it would be unfair to Elastic to equate their solution’s transparency with a purely closed-source solution like Snowflake.

Author: ```suggestion
Elasticsearch’s new license allows developers to implement Elasticsearch themselves, but forbids cloud distributors from running a for-profit, managed Elasticsearch service. Most open source advocates consider Elastic’s Elastic License not open source; however, it would be unfair to Elastic to equate their solution’s transparency with a purely closed-source solution like Snowflake.
```

Elastic also develops Kibana, a visualization program that plugs into Elasticsearch. It was also developed under an open-source license then shifted to an Elastic License in 2021. Kibana provides an interface for designing a dashboard that showcases Elasticsearch data. 

### What is Clickhouse?

> ClickHouse is a traditional open-source project, but like many, it started as a proprietary application. ClickHouse was originally built by Yandex for Yandex.Metrica, a massive analytics tool popular in Russia. Eventually, ClickHouse spun out into an independent, open-source project. Today, it is managed by ClickHouse Inc with notable contributions by a separate organization, Altinity Inc.  

Author: ```suggestion
ClickHouse is a traditional open-source project, but it started as a proprietary application. ClickHouse was originally built by Yandex for Yandex.Metrica, a massive analytics tool popular in Russia. Eventually, ClickHouse spun out into an independent, open-source project. Today, it is managed by ClickHouse Inc with notable contributions by a separate organization, Altinity Inc.  
```

Elasticsearch, meanwhile, can accomplish similar performance over certain queries. For instance, if a product needs the number of college alumni that are unemployed, Elasticsearch can add up indices in the inverted index of words that pattern-match to unemployed alumni. In other words, fast search sometimes equates to great analytics by just adding a `COUNT()` function. 

While both Elasticsearch and ClickHouse are fundamentally backend products, we can compare their respective GUI products – Kibana for Elasticsearch and ClickHouse Cloud for ClickHouse. ClickHouse Cloud is a *much* younger product; Kibana, conversely, has been around for nearly a decade and has an extensive UI.

![Comparinson.png](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-elastic/comparison.png)

In a nutshell, comparing the analytics efficiency of ClickHouse and Elasticsearch has the same sort-of, not-really awkwardness of other comparisons – they both excel in their respective categories using radically different methods to cater to a different type of need. However, Elastic’s Kibana product is more mature than ClickHouse Cloud’s competitive offering. 

> 
> ## Comparing developers
> 
> One of the reasons that Elasticsearch grew quickly thanks to fast-paced development by its parent company, Elastic. Elastic has spearheaded the development of Elasticsearch, Kibana, and other accessory products like Beats, a data shipper. For many enterprise customers, Elasticsearch being a psuedo-closed-source solution is balanced by the fact that it can leverage its enterprise revenue to foster a massive engineering effort to improve it.
> 
> Conversely, the teams behind ClickHouse are a lot smaller. However, ClickHouse has a very avid developer community, with contributors existing outside of the two major ClickHouse developers – ClickHouse Inc and Altinity Inc And one of the reasons that ClickHouse is starting to really grow in the last few years is because of its open-source, pro-community brand. 

Author: ```suggestion
```
